website/content/getting-started-5-minutes.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started with Attestix in 5 Minutes
publishedAt: "2026-02-20"
summary: Install Attestix, create your first agent identity, and issue a verifiable credential in under 5 minutes.
author: "Pavan Kumar Dubasi"
---

Attestix runs as an MCP server, which means any MCP-compatible AI agent (Claude, Cursor, Windsurf) can use all 47 tools out of the box. Here is how to get started.

## Step 1: Install

```bash
pip install attestix
```

## Step 2: Configure Your MCP Client

Add Attestix to your MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "attestix": {
      "command": "attestix",
      "args": ["--transport", "stdio"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Step 3: Create an Agent Identity

Ask your AI agent to create an identity:

> "Create an agent identity for my compliance auditor agent"

The agent will call `create_agent_identity` and return a UAIT, DID, and Ed25519 key pair.

## Step 4: Issue a Credential

> "Issue a verifiable credential certifying this agent is EU AI Act compliant"

This calls `issue_credential` with Ed25519Signature2020 signing, producing a full W3C Verifiable Credential.

## Step 5: Anchor to Blockchain

> "Anchor this credential to Base L2"

This calls `anchor_credential` to create an Ethereum Attestation Service record on Base L2.

That is it. Five steps, five minutes, and your AI agent now has verifiable identity and compliance credentials.

Commit message:

fix(website): audit compliance language, accuracy, and legal liability
Address findings from CTO/legal audit across the marketing website:

Compliance language (reduce legal liability):
- Hero description softened from "regulatory readiness" to "support
  regulatory documentation workflows"
- Highlight card disclaimer added: credentials are documentation
  artifacts, not compliance guarantees
- Getting started guide clarifies credential issuance as signed
  declarations, not regulatory certifications
- Terms of service: narrowed indemnification scope, strengthened
  compliance disclaimer to explicitly exclude regulatory certification
- Privacy policy: added blockchain anchoring disclosure explaining
  only cryptographic hashes are sent to Base L2

Accuracy corrections:
- Test count updated from "284" to "272+" across hero stats,
  statistics section, config, and highlight cards to match actual
  test suite count
- FAQ renamed from "production-ready" to "current maturity level"
  with honest beta label

UX improvements:
- Added Pricing link to desktop and mobile navigation
- Removed misleading "popular" badge from Enterprise pricing tier,
  made Open Source tier visually primary
- Testimonials section renamed from "Highlights" to "From the Project"

website/content/getting-started-5-minutes.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started with Attestix in 5 Minutes
publishedAt: "2026-02-20"
summary: Install Attestix, create your first agent identity, and issue a verifiable credential in under 5 minutes.
author: "Pavan Kumar Dubasi"
---

Attestix runs as an MCP server, which means any MCP-compatible AI agent (Claude, Cursor, Windsurf) can use all 47 tools out of the box. Here is how to get started.

## Step 1: Install

```bash
pip install attestix
```

## Step 2: Configure Your MCP Client

Add Attestix to your MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "attestix": {
      "command": "attestix",
      "args": ["--transport", "stdio"]
    }
  }
}
```

## Step 3: Create an Agent Identity

Ask your AI agent to create an identity:

> "Create an agent identity for my compliance auditor agent"

The agent will call `create_agent_identity` and return a UAIT, DID, and Ed25519 key pair.

## Step 4: Issue a Credential

> "Issue a verifiable credential for this agent with type ComplianceDeclaration"

This calls `issue_credential` with Ed25519Signature2020 signing, producing a W3C Verifiable Credential. Note: this generates a signed declaration, not a regulatory compliance certification.

## Step 5: Anchor to Blockchain

> "Anchor this credential to Base L2"

This calls `anchor_credential` to create an Ethereum Attestation Service record on Base L2.

That is it. Five steps, five minutes, and your AI agent now has verifiable identity and signed credentials. These are cryptographic artifacts for documentation purposes, not regulatory certifications.
