CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Attestix

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Attestix. This guide covers how to get started, the development workflow, and project conventions.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- Git

### Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/VibeTensor/attestix.git
cd attestix
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Verify Setup

```bash
python main.py
# Should print "Attestix MCP server loaded: 47 tools registered" to stderr
# Then wait for MCP client connections on stdio
```

Press Ctrl+C to stop.

## Project Structure

```
attestix/
  auth/           # Cryptography and token parsing
  services/       # Business logic (one service per module)
  tools/          # MCP tool definitions (thin wrappers around services)
  docs/           # Documentation
  examples/       # Runnable example scripts
  config.py       # Storage paths and helpers
  errors.py       # Error handling and logging
  main.py         # Entry point
```

### Architecture Rules

1. **Services contain all logic.** Tool files are thin wrappers that call service methods.
2. **Services never import from tools.** Dependencies flow: tools -> services -> config/auth.
3. **All output to stderr.** `builtins.print` is redirected to stderr to protect MCP JSON-RPC on stdout.
4. **JSON storage with file locking.** Use `_safe_load` / `_safe_save` from `config.py` for all file I/O.
5. **Ed25519 signatures.** All persistent records (UAITs, VCs, audit entries) must be signed.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Issues

Open an issue on GitHub with:
- What you expected
- What happened
- Steps to reproduce
- Python version and OS

### Submitting Changes

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature`
3. Make your changes
4. Run the examples to verify nothing is broken:
   ```bash
   python examples/01_basic_identity.py
   python examples/02_full_compliance.py
   ```
5. Commit with a descriptive message
6. Push to your fork and open a Pull Request

### Pull Request Guidelines

- One feature or fix per PR
- Keep changes focused - avoid mixing refactoring with new features
- Update documentation if you change tool parameters or behavior
- Add an example script if you add a new module

## Code Conventions

### Style

- Python standard library style (no external formatter enforced)
- Use type hints for function signatures
- Docstrings on all public methods and classes
- Keep imports sorted: stdlib, third-party, local

### Naming

- Services: `{module}_service.py` with a class named `{Module}Service`
- Tools: `{module}_tools.py` with a `register(mcp)` function
- Storage files: lowercase `{module}.json`
- IDs: prefixed with module abbreviation (e.g., `attestix:`, `comp:`, `assess:`, `urn:uuid:`)

### Error Handling

Return error dicts instead of raising exceptions in service methods:

```python
def my_method(self, agent_id: str) -> dict:
    agent = self._find_agent(agent_id)
    if not agent:
        return format_error(
            "Agent not found",
            ErrorCategory.IDENTITY,
            "AGENT_NOT_FOUND",
        )
    # ... do work
    return {"result": "success"}
```

### Adding a New Module

1. Create `services/your_service.py` with a service class
2. Create `tools/your_tools.py` with a `register(mcp)` function
3. Add storage helpers to `config.py` if needed
4. Add error category to `errors.py` if needed
5. Import and register in `main.py`
6. Update tool count in `main.py` docstring
7. Add documentation to `docs/api-reference.md`
8. Create an example in `examples/`

## Security

- Never return private keys in tool responses
- Exclude mutable fields (proof, credentialStatus) from signature payloads
- Use `secrets` module for generating random identifiers
- Validate all URLs before making HTTP requests (SSRF protection)
- Report security vulnerabilities privately via email, not public issues

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the Apache License 2.0.

Commit message:

feat(test): add 91 conformance benchmark tests and update docs for v0.2.1
Add comprehensive standards conformance test suite in tests/benchmarks/
validating every standards claim with dedicated test files:

- RFC 8032 Section 7.1: 4 IETF Ed25519 canonical test vectors (18 tests)
  covering key derivation, exact signature matching, and tamper detection
- W3C VC Data Model 1.1: credential structure, proof fields, mutable field
  exclusion, Verifiable Presentations, replay protection (24 tests)
- W3C DID Core 1.0: did:key and did:web document structure, roundtrip
  consistency, Ed25519VerificationKey2020 validation (16 tests)
- UCAN v0.9.0: JWT header/payload, capability attenuation, expiry
  enforcement, token revocation (16 tests)
- MCP: 47 tools across 9 modules, async registration, naming (5 tests)
- Performance: latency thresholds for crypto and service operations (7 tests)

Update all documentation (README, CHANGELOG, ROADMAP, CONTRIBUTING,
architecture, FAQ, configuration) with benchmark results and measured
performance numbers. Update research paper evaluation section with
conformance test matrix, actual measured latencies, and standards coverage
table. Bump version to 0.2.1.

Total test count: 284 (193 functional + 91 conformance benchmarks)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Attestix

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Attestix. This guide covers how to get started, the development workflow, and project conventions.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- Git

### Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/VibeTensor/attestix.git
cd attestix
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Verify Setup

```bash
python main.py
# Should print "Attestix MCP server loaded: 47 tools registered" to stderr
# Then wait for MCP client connections on stdio
```

Press Ctrl+C to stop.

## Project Structure

```
attestix/
  auth/           # Cryptography and token parsing
  services/       # Business logic (one service per module)
  tools/          # MCP tool definitions (thin wrappers around services)
  docs/           # Documentation
  examples/       # Runnable example scripts
  config.py       # Storage paths and helpers
  errors.py       # Error handling and logging
  main.py         # Entry point
```

### Architecture Rules

1. **Services contain all logic.** Tool files are thin wrappers that call service methods.
2. **Services never import from tools.** Dependencies flow: tools -> services -> config/auth.
3. **All output to stderr.** `builtins.print` is redirected to stderr to protect MCP JSON-RPC on stdout.
4. **JSON storage with file locking.** Use `_safe_load` / `_safe_save` from `config.py` for all file I/O.
5. **Ed25519 signatures.** All persistent records (UAITs, VCs, audit entries) must be signed.

## How to Contribute

### Reporting Issues

Open an issue on GitHub with:
- What you expected
- What happened
- Steps to reproduce
- Python version and OS

### Submitting Changes

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature`
3. Make your changes
4. Run the test suite to verify nothing is broken:
   ```bash
   # Run all 284 tests (unit, e2e, conformance benchmarks)
   pytest tests/ -v -m "not live_blockchain"

   # Or run in Docker for a clean environment
   docker build -f Dockerfile.test -t attestix-bench . && docker run --rm attestix-bench
   ```
5. Commit with a descriptive message
6. Push to your fork and open a Pull Request

### Pull Request Guidelines

- One feature or fix per PR
- Keep changes focused - avoid mixing refactoring with new features
- Update documentation if you change tool parameters or behavior
- Add an example script if you add a new module

## Code Conventions

### Style

- Python standard library style (no external formatter enforced)
- Use type hints for function signatures
- Docstrings on all public methods and classes
- Keep imports sorted: stdlib, third-party, local

### Naming

- Services: `{module}_service.py` with a class named `{Module}Service`
- Tools: `{module}_tools.py` with a `register(mcp)` function
- Storage files: lowercase `{module}.json`
- IDs: prefixed with module abbreviation (e.g., `attestix:`, `comp:`, `assess:`, `urn:uuid:`)

### Error Handling

Return error dicts instead of raising exceptions in service methods:

```python
def my_method(self, agent_id: str) -> dict:
    agent = self._find_agent(agent_id)
    if not agent:
        return format_error(
            "Agent not found",
            ErrorCategory.IDENTITY,
            "AGENT_NOT_FOUND",
        )
    # ... do work
    return {"result": "success"}
```

### Adding a New Module

1. Create `services/your_service.py` with a service class
2. Create `tools/your_tools.py` with a `register(mcp)` function
3. Add storage helpers to `config.py` if needed
4. Add error category to `errors.py` if needed
5. Import and register in `main.py`
6. Update tool count in `main.py` docstring
7. Add documentation to `docs/api-reference.md`
8. Create an example in `examples/`

## Security

- Never return private keys in tool responses
- Exclude mutable fields (proof, credentialStatus) from signature payloads
- Use `secrets` module for generating random identifiers
- Validate all URLs before making HTTP requests (SSRF protection)
- Report security vulnerabilities privately via email, not public issues

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the Apache License 2.0.
